I'm a professor of entrepreneurship at a university, I run the accelerator there, the
venture lab.
I love KSA.
I love Saudi Arabia.
I've been coming here for 15 years.
This is like second home.
The evolution of this country is just amazing, especially with entrepreneurship.
And that's why I love this conference, BiBan.
I've been coming here for many years now and speaking here because it's the energy
that you feel.
I think there's over 100,000 people that come through here in four days.
It is just an amazing energy.
Hello, everyone.
Welcome again from another episode from the podcast truck.
Today we are at BiBan.
This is the fourth day.
I am extremely honored to be hosting this episode with an amazing human being before
We're having more than how many years of experience and how many lessons are we going
to learn today from Dr. Perez de la Traz.
He is the Managing Director of Venture Lab and he is also the Professor of Entrepreneurship
and Managing Director of IE Business School in Madrid, Spain, Espana.
Hello.
How are you?
I'm good.
Please also introduce your amazing self to everyone who's watching.
So, yes, I'm a Professor of Entrepreneurship at IE University, I run the accelerator there,
the Venture Lab.
I'm also co-founder of IBM Company and I'm also heading the Applied Innovation
Institute in Silicon Valley.
Amazing.
How do you feel today being at BiBan?
It's great.
I mean, I love BiBan.
I mean, I love KSA.
I love Saudi Arabia.
I've been coming here for 15 years.
This is like second home.
Amazing.
15 years.
So how is your experience today coming to Riyadh in 2025 than when you first came
in 2010 around?
So in 2020, we probably wouldn't be in a truck, we'd be surrounded by camels.
No, I'm only joking.
But it was, I mean, the evolution of this country is just amazing, especially with entrepreneurship.
And that's why I love this conference, BiBan.
I've been coming here for many years now and speaking here because it's the energy
that you feel.
I think there's over 100,000 people that come through here in four days.
It is just an amazing energy.
True.
The latest statistics, they're saying that we have more than 140,000 human beings, entrepreneurs
here.
And as you can see, there are around 50,000 watching us now.
Yes, I can see it.
It's just amazing.
The entrepreneurial spirit that you have in young people here is just crazy.
Everybody is like eager to do things, to have impact, to make Foulous.
Yes, to make Foulous.
And Foulous, you know, it's not just about, it's not a bad thing to make Foulous because
it represents that you're having impact.
It represents that you're, you know, it's a measure of success.
Just one measure of success.
Remind me of the first salary you ever took when you started.
What was your first job?
I studied computer science.
My bachelor's and my master's work was in computer science and my first job was in computers.
I was doing databases.
I was doing databases and it was about, I was making $2,000 a month, which was not
a lot of money in those days in Boston.
I went to school in Boston.
I'm originally from California, but I went to school in Boston.
And that first salary, I mean, I really felt so proud of the fact that after studying
six years, I had made that first salary.
But it took me 12 months to realize that what I had studied for six years, I didn't
like.
Okay.
So I said to myself, Halas, I need to do something different.
And I got lucky.
My boss at the computer company that I was working at, he said to me, I want to
raise money and I want to do a startup.
Now, if you can imagine, this is 1980.
Okay.
This is when the IBM PC came out.
Oh, my God.
You weren't even born then.
I wasn't yet.
I was born 13 years after.
So it was the IBM PC had just come out and he wanted to raise money to start
a company.
And I went to New York City to try to raise money.
And I got involved with a VC there that invested in money in his company.
And then the VC said, we want you to work for us.
And so I moved to New York and that began my career in investment banking.
I spent 10 years in New York and 11 in London, 21 years of my life doing
investment banking.
And how was how how was so today since we're in Beban, do you know what
does Beban mean in English?
Window.
You're close a little bit.
It's it's like a window.
It's a door.
So it's oh, it's a door.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's the plural of a door.
And so this is the first door that opened new horizons for you.
Correct.
Can you tell me how how did it impact your life when someone gives you a
chance?
How does it impact your life?
Because I've heard a lot that you don't only speak at startups or with
entrepreneurs.
No, you build alongside them.
And this is an amazing thing to give people an opportunity to be
themselves and to do an impact.
How did it feel like 40 years ago?
Right.
Forty years ago.
Forty five.
Forty five years ago.
So I started investment banking and it was a unique opportunity that
opened up for me.
And I always tell people, you know, if you're faced with an
opportunity and you're not sure whether you can do it, take it.
You can learn along the way.
A lot of people say to me, you know, I'm not a lucky person.
And I'm like, do you really believe that there are lucky people
and unlucky people?
I don't believe that.
I think that life gives us a certain amount of luck.
Yeah.
And what's important is what do you do with that luck?
I mean, look at you.
You're doing podcasts out of a truck.
Lucky you.
Lucky me to be here in front of you today.
I'm so honored.
You know, this is a great opportunity.
And, you know, many times people think, you know, I'm not
going to take that opportunity.
I don't know if I can do it.
You need to be confident.
You need to be ambitious.
And, you know, I'm a professor.
I teach a lot.
I've seen over 3,500 teams of students with startup ideas.
And one of the things that I really love about young people
is when they're ambitious, you know, and they want to, like,
take over the world.
And, you know, I come to the Middle East a lot.
And for the last 15 years, I'm an Arabist.
You know what an Arabist is?
Yeah.
Someone that loves the Arab world.
I love this.
And we love you, too.
But not everybody in the Middle East is the same.
You have countries, cultures that are very different.
True.
The Egyptians, they're go-getters.
They like to go after opportunities.
The Lebanese, the Lebanese are crazy.
They really go after opportunities.
The Syrians, there's a lot of Syrians now, you know,
that you're starting to see are very entrepreneurial.
And so it's lovely to see these cultures that they look
at business differently.
They look at the way they do business.
They look at their ambition differently.
And at the end of the day, it has a lot to do with how
comfortable they are with uncertainty.
Why are the Lebanese so disruptive?
Because they have to live with uncertainty all the time.
The Egyptians, to an extent as well.
But then you go to a country that's maybe more stable,
like Kuwait or the Emirates, and they're less comfortable
with uncertainty because they've lived a fairly
more stable life.
Yeah, true.
Although everyone in the Middle East today is
dealing with uncertainty.
And I think it's a healthy thing.
When you get comfortable with uncertainty,
it's very powerful because I always say that life
begins outside of your comfort zone.
Definitely.
And so being out of your comfort zone is so,
you know, disruptive.
And it really changes who you are and how you
look at life around you.
I worked in the same place for eight years and a half.
And I loved them.
So if you're watching me, I love you all.
But I was living in...
In your comfort zone?
Yeah.
What place was that?
It was a TV show.
OK.
It was a TV show, an amazing TV show in Egypt.
It's called Sahebit Al Saada and it's hosted by
an amazing spirit, human being.
Saad Yunusri is an amazing show presenter.
She's an actress.
She's a producer.
She's an amazing mom, grandmother.
I love her.
But I had to...
I had to leave because I felt that, yeah,
I'm in my comfort zone.
I'm in my comfort zone with my friends and I wanted to grow.
I wanted to spread my wings.
You're not growing when you're in your comfort zone.
If I wouldn't have taken this decision around three,
more than three years ago,
I wouldn't be with you in the same podcast
struck here at Vipan in South Arabia and Riyadh.
I'm glad you took that decision.
I'm glad, Hamdallah.
I want to ask you a question.
You are very, very multi-cultured
and I love that you said that you're an Arabist
and I love that you...
So when we were speaking of your name,
I wanted to make sure how to pronounce it.
You told me it's Swiss actually
and you've worked in London, California,
Boston, Madrid, Spain, you're here.
Tell me more about how can one actually grow
when he's surrounded by different cultures
and people and not only one,
how can an entrepreneur grow when he's multi-cultured?
Well, I think actually it's an asset to be multi-cultured
because every culture has pluses and minuses
and we can learn from cultures.
So I'm American, but I've learned so much from...
I live in Spain from the Spanish culture.
I've learned from the Middle Eastern culture.
And so when you're multi-cultured,
usually you have a lot of emotional intelligence
and today, emotional intelligence
is probably one of the most important factors
in your ability to grow, even within a company.
And then when you're an entrepreneur,
you need emotional intelligence.
And so what I like to tell my students
is that they need to be able to master the rhetoric.
I don't know if you know what rhetoric means,
but it's a Greek term.
Rhetoric has three parts.
It's logos, ethos, and pathos.
Very good.
I studied this.
So logos is the arguments that we make.
Like you say that, you know, I'll give you an example.
When Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone,
he could have said, this is a device
that allows you to search the web,
take pictures, and make calls.
Pure logos, arguments, engineering arguments.
Ethos is your credibility.
He was very credible.
He was president of Apple.
But pathos is the emotions that you stir in the people.
And so he didn't get up there in 2009
at that famous beach and say,
this is a device that can take pictures,
search the web, and make calls.
He got up there and he said,
do you see this device?
It's gonna change your life.
Yes.
That is pure pathos.
And we need to dream.
We need to dream in our lives.
My father always said to me,
the day that you don't have a dream, you die.
And now we're living in a world
that is being disrupted by AI.
And many of my students are very worried.
How can I be future proof?
Yeah.
Well, let me tell you,
AI will never take over the human spirit of rhetoric,
the ability to persuade others,
to inspire, to have people have faith in you.
Leaders, leadership,
all those things will never be replaced by AI.
And so today,
when I see my students making presentations,
they make incredible slides, data, all that.
It's all done by AI.
But when they have to stand in front of the audience,
they're alone there.
And that's when you're in front of humanity
and you need to show what you're made of.
And that will never be replaced by AI.
That's very reassuring
because we were having this very quick chat
with your colleague now, right?
Before we start.
And she's a master of AI.
And I'm very afraid of AI.
She's a geek.
She's a geek.
That's amazing.
We have a company, it's called Geek Peak.
It's for like virtual stuff with CG and AI integrated.
I should introduce her to the team.
But AI,
so actually you're the second person
that I interview in Biban.
And they mentioned the term emotional intelligence.
And you know that I haven't heard it
for more than a year and a half.
Really?
I haven't.
No one is speaking about EQ.
No one.
It's so important.
Yes, because all we're speaking of now is AI.
And I don't mind it if, as you said,
if it's controlled, if I know how to use it.
But speaking of AI,
how do you see, how much are you supporting
entrepreneurs that are actually infusing AI
in their schemes or in their industries?
Tremendously.
We need to leverage AI.
AI is here to stay.
And it is a tremendous asset that we have
in order to be more productive,
find cures to diseases, all kinds of things.
But the problem is not AI.
The problem is how we use AI.
And what we're finding is that about 60% of the class
is getting dumber and lazier using AI.
The other 40% are really taking off.
So, you know, and this term is called cognitive offloading.
I have a TEDx talk on my LinkedIn that you can see on that.
But essentially, we're trying to create a sense of urgency
because if 60% of the class in universities,
and we've seen it here in Saudi Arabia,
we've seen it in the US and Europe,
it's a reality.
60% of the class is getting dumber and lazier.
If you don't use your brain, you lose it.
It's like a must.
Yeah.
And so we need to teach young people
to do critical thinking.
Yes.
You went to school before AI.
Yeah.
So you had to do critical thinking.
So did I.
But today, if you're a young person in school,
you don't need to do critical thinking.
You can let AI do it for you.
And so you've never learned to use your brain.
Your brain, which is needed, which is amazing.
Exactly.
So this is like a drug if you don't control it.
And so we're here trying to create a sense of urgency.
We're talking to a lot of different people.
We're trying to create a movement around the right use
of AI, the ethical use of AI.
Because otherwise, we run the risk
of losing generations of people.
I totally agree.
And it's hitting me to the core
because once, like, you know, when child GPT started
to become part of our lives, yes, we kind of used it
in the beginning.
But I felt that the time I'm spending on finishing a task,
if I was working on a task that takes five days,
I can now finish it in less than a day.
But yes, I'm honest.
I felt so very lazy.
I felt so very dumb.
Posture syndrome.
Yeah.
When you feel like, oh, my God, what have I done?
I didn't do it.
Yeah.
So did you look me up using chat GPT before?
No, actually, no.
I looked to normally I searched the web.
I swear I even have them.
Sure.
Yeah.
I even have them open.
What I opened is actually a very long article
about your presence on social media on LinkedIn
and on Twitter and on X.
And this is what I learned.
And I opened your LinkedIn profile
because I wanted to see the human behind the professor.
And I saw a lot of amazing and amazing pictures
for you with your colleagues, people you meet,
your alumni.
And I'm actually waiting for our selfie
inside the podcast track so that we post it later on.
Great.
And so no, I did not.
Yeah, no, it's very important.
The ethical use of AI is very important today.
But we need to embrace it.
AI is the future.
We were speaking of something pretty nice and amazing.
And I want you to explain it.
What's your theory of the Monday and Friday people?
So yeah, in my school, I am known for telling people
that there's two types of people in the world.
Friday people and Monday people.
Friday people hate what they do all week.
Monday people look forward to Mondays.
In your language, it's Thursday people and Sunday people.
Yeah, true.
80% of the world are Friday people.
I mean, it's so sad.
But you were at your last job eight years.
Maybe when you left, you realized
that you'd had to get out of your comfort zone.
But maybe you had also become a Friday person.
I might have.
I haven't.
Where you were looking forward to the weekend.
We're living in a world where people
are looking for meaning in their lives more than ever before.
And your job is 40% of your life.
So if you're a Friday person at work,
it's the saddest thing in the world.
And so I'm trying to encourage my students everywhere
to and everyone that life's too short to be a Friday
person.
You need to find a way to really enjoy what you're doing.
Because when you enjoy what you're doing,
it doesn't feel like work.
Yes, I totally agree.
I mean, look at you.
You're not working right now, are you?
No.
You're having fun.
I'm having fun.
I've had fun since the very first day I worked.
Wallah.
Wallah.
You know something?
When you said that.
If you don't have, if you don't dream every day, your, your, your father's saying,
my first dream was when I was seven years old.
I always wanted to become the next middle Eastern Oprah Winfrey.
This has been never too late.
It's never too late.
So I swear to God since, since then, every decision I made in life, whether
what I studied, where I went out, the extra curricular activities, I,
I made in university, places I've been is all to build to that moment where I get
to be interviewing people.
I tried, I failed, I tried, I failed.
It's never too late.
It's never too late.
I don't want to be the next Middle Eastern or Arab Oprah Winfrey.
I want to be a very good version of myself.
Exactly.
You don't need to replicate anyone.
This is, this is something I learned by time when I actually grew.
I love Oprah.
I loved her so much, but then I also love being a normal human interviewing
people for what they love.
Yeah.
So getting back to the Monday and Friday, you've always been a Monday type of
No, not always.
Well, so I, I was an investment banker for 21 years.
And then at the age of 42, I became a Friday person.
So I said, I got to do something else.
I became an entrepreneur for eight years.
I loved what I was doing.
And then after eight years, again, I became a Friday person.
So I said, I got my PhD and became a professor.
Yeah.
And so now I love what I do.
I love being a professor, but I've changed careers three times in my life.
Yeah.
And if you notice from investment banking to entrepreneur, to professor,
every time I change careers, I make less for loose.
Yeah.
Well, today as a professor, my few fellows, you know, professors don't
make any money, but you know what?
It's not all about the money.
They can't be all about the money.
And this is the other thing that I love about the younger generation is
that they want more from their lives.
See my generation, it was all about the money, making more money, making
more money, but young people today, even yourself, you're a, you're a
millennial, right?
I am a millennial.
Yeah.
You're a millennial.
You want a job that gives you purpose, gives you meaning and the money is
good, but the money will come.
But the money is not the most important thing.
And so I really respect that in young people today because I think again,
um, being a Monday person is about, you know, waking up in the morning
and looking forward to what you're doing and it can't be the money.
It can't be the money.
The money just it's, you know, Simon Sinek says, what is your why in life?
It's not what you do or how you do it.
It's why you do what you do.
And that's what makes the whole difference.
I love this.
Okay.
Tell me a lesson that you actually learned from a person you taught and
taught or mentored.
Uh, lesson that I actually learned from a person I taught or mentored.
So I've been, uh, an investment banker for 21 years and I, so I did a lot
of contracts and did a lot of different things, um, where at the end of the
day you had sometimes legal documents to protect you.
Yeah.
Um, and about four years ago, I met a student, she wasn't my student.
She was a master's student.
Um, but I mentored her for a while and we became business partners.
And one of the things she told me was when you have the same values as
someone else, you don't really need contracts and things like that.
If you really, really believe that you have the same values and
we've been business partners now for four years without a contract.
Amazing.
Because we both have the same values and finding, you know, uh, I don't
recommend this for most people.
Um, but finding the right business partner is truly special.
It's not easy to find business partners.
You know, they always say, don't do business with your family.
You don't do business with friends.
Have you ever played Monopoly?
Of course.
You always get into fights.
Of course.
Um, and so I, that is a lesson that I, that I learned that none of
the legal documents and any of this stuff in life makes a difference when
you're dealing with people that have your same values, you know, it's
like, you don't have to worry about those things.
I love this.
And I totally second it.
Which is part of what you were saying earlier that, you know, I
can't, I don't feel good, you know, charging for something like this.
Um, you know, I think it's important to go back to values because we're
living in a society nowadays where, you know, people are not promoting
the celebration of values, you know, it's, it's all about, uh, less
emphasis on family, less emphasis on religion, less emphasis on culture.
And it's much more about, you know, materialistic, just, uh, instant
gratification and there's no values in that.
And so we, we have to go back to values because at the end of the
day, um, that's what you take with you.
And one of the things that we've noticed with AI is when we've
surveyed these young people that know how to use AI and use it well,
yeah, they have, in many cases, they have ethics, because they
realize that if they use AI the wrong way and just don't think anymore
and let AI do all the work and then they get a good grade for not
doing it, they can't do it that way.
They realize that's not, that's not them.
And so you find that a lot of these people that really know how
to use AI, they have values.
And one of their values is their work ethic.
They don't believe in a free lunch.
They don't believe in that they, you know, they deserve anything, you
know, out of the sky, that they have to work for everything that they do.
You know, my father told me when I was a kid, he said, you know,
someday you'll have a job and it's not about what your company can do
for you, but what you do for your company.
He's saying the gems.
And, and, you know, I, when I was, uh, 15 years old, 14 years old, I
was, I had a paper route.
I delivered the newspaper.
I love this.
It was my way of, you know, because I had to learn what the value of money is.
And so if I use AI today, I mean, I'm 65, so, you know, I can
maybe be a little lazy with AI, but if I was a young person, I'd be
feeling like I have to learn something.
But we see a lot of students that they don't care.
It's like, I'm just going to let AI do the work for me.
And I'm going to get a good grade.
And that's not good because our brain is like a muscle.
And if we don't use it, we lose it.
I, I feel something in my brains now worked when you said it, because
I'm trying to use it more because it didn't, it did not even hit only my
brains, but every atom of my being, because yeah, if I don't train it, I
will lose, I don't want to lose it.
I want it to be fresh and young.
And, um, I love this.
Okay.
So what did your father do for a living?
My father was in the U S Navy and then he retired and was an engineer.
So you actually also learned some, not some, but like discipline, lots
of discipline.
I mean, discipline is important, but he taught discipline by example.
He never said to me, don't smoke.
Um, he just showed me the effects of smoking.
Yeah.
He never said to me, don't do drugs.
He just showed me the effects of doing drugs.
And so when you learn that way, it's, it has more impact on you.
Yeah.
Because, you know, people are rebellious.
Exactly.
Someone tells you, don't do that.
You do it.
Of course.
You know?
Yeah.
Uh, it's like, you know, curiosity and all those things.
And, and so, yeah, I think that, um, there's a way of, of doing
things of, you know, being a role model and, and, you know, it's the
buck stops with you, as they say.
Yeah.
You have to be the, the role model in the house when you're, when you
have a family, because that's the only way that you're going to be taken
seriously.
I have, uh, four younger brothers and sisters.
Yeah.
Um, and so I have a lot of, you know, my family.
Yeah.
And what's the lesson that you would teach yourself to your brothers?
Um, I mean, I think the most important lesson is that health is wealth.
We forget that.
And only when there's a tough situation that you've come to realize
how important health is and, and your family has to be number one.
Your family has to be number one.
Uh, but health, you know, without health, you can be the luckiest
person in the world, but if you don't have health, no felus in
the world will make up for it.
Yeah.
So I was standing here like the last three days and I'm.
I go home, my feet are hurting, and then I see someone who is an amazing human being
who's handicapped, she's sitting on a wheelchair and she's moving and she's so happy and she's
so enthusiastic and I want to be her friend and I just say to myself, are you crazy?
You went home yesterday crying because your feet, but at least you were, you were
walking.
We take so much for granted.
Yeah.
We take so much for granted, you know, the other lesson my father taught me when he was
about to die, you know, my father died of liver cancer and he was in his 80s.
May he rest in peace.
And thank you.
And he said to me, be careful with life, because many times you will never regret
the things you've done in your life, but you will regret the things you haven't done.
And so make sure you live a life of no regrets.
And that's very important because, you know, you could say, like you, you were eight
years at that company, you could have said, oh, I'm going to stay another two and then
five years go by.
Yeah.
And then you've been there for like 12 years.
You know, you have to and Steve Jobs said this, never settle in your life.
You know, you have to really wake up to the fact that you shouldn't settle.
You shouldn't feel bad about, you know, experiences that you have.
It's very important not to have any regrets.
And so you need to live a life of no regrets.
You need to take every opportunity, as we said at the beginning, even if you're not
sure you can do it, jump into it.
Life's too short.
Life's too short.
You need to be ambitious.
You need to have adrenaline.
You know, adrenaline is what keeps you going.
A little bit of stress is good, too.
Don't be afraid of stress.
It's got to be healthy stress.
But you need to be alive.
You need to feel alive.
Do you second people being happy or grateful or both?
I mean, I don't think they're mutually exclusive.
I think we all always have to be grateful.
Yeah. You know, we have to thank God every day that we're alive.
And this is something that my mother taught me.
My mother is ninety five.
Oh, ninety five.
And I love this.
She loves life.
She just loves life every day.
She wakes up and she's like she takes she looks at herself in the mirror.
She fixes herself up.
She says, I'm going to look the best I can because I love every moment of this
life and I'm grateful for every moment of this life.
And I think that's priceless.
And that she taught me that.
And I think it's priceless to really realize that we don't know how many days
we have left in our life.
It's not like we're a carton of milk that has an expiration date.
We don't know what our expiration date and it could be tomorrow.
It could be next week. It could be in 50 years.
But you need to live every day as if it was your last.
I love this and I love how
how did your parents affect your values, your being?
And I love it when people tell me lessons that they learn from their parents.
They are our first school, you know, our first friends.
That's right. And that's why I mean, that's so important.
But, you know, today it's more difficult because most households,
both parents work. Yeah.
And then, you know, how much quality time do they spend with their kids?
True. We're living in a country today where the divorce rate is going through the roof.
And, you know, it's a challenge to raise kids in a single parent home.
Or even when both parents are working, sometimes the nanny is raising the kids.
So it's a challenge.
And unfortunately, those years of a child are so important
in terms of who they're going to become in the future.
The first seven years, the first five years, I spent my first seven years with my grandmother.
And she was like, I was the first grandchild who was born next to her.
The others were born afar in other countries.
So I was like her princess.
And even my nickname was like a part of a princess, but in Arabic, you know, she takes a part of it.
And I owe every single atom of my being now for how God shaped me,
for my grandmother, for my mother, for my father, for my sister, family and my best friends.
They are the ones who made me know life.
And for my professors, for my teaching assistants, for my teachers,
the ones who saw something in me and decided to tell me, you go, own it.
So I think we're coming to an end, but closed in your life in a way that is in a rejection form.
And it changed your life.
OK, can you tell me a door that when it was closed or in a form of rejection,
it actually taught you a lesson.
So since we are at the band, doors closing, opening.
My father was in the military, as I said to you, and I was obsessed as a child to go into the military as well.
And so the door wasn't closed by the military, but my father closed it for me.
He said he prohibited that I would go into the military because he said I would make a life out of it.
And you need to have a life in your life.
And I was very upset for several years.
But then I realized how right he was that I was able to have a life as well as a professional life.
And I see so many people in the military that it becomes their life.
You know, they don't have they can't take care of their families, all that.
And so that is one door that I always dreamt of going through as a child.
And it was closed.
And you actually lived through the eyes of your father.
Yes, I lived through the eyes of my father.
But he was based on land, you know, not in combat.
And so he was able to spend time with the family.
But I was willing to go.
Yeah, to go places, go places and things.
And so I'm glad that I took well that he forced that decision on me
because it has had a big impact on my life.
I'm glad, too, because if he hasn't imposed this, I don't know if I'll be meeting you here.
Probably not. Right.
I don't know unless I meet you somewhere in a military place.
And I hope I'm not making any trouble.
Yeah, you are an educator and innovator and a network catalyst.
You know what I call myself on LinkedIn? What?
A human catalyst.
I believe that.
And when I read this, I thought this is what I want to be when I grow up.
So from now on, you're my role model from today.
And on the words as we have 8th of November 2025, I have a new role model, everyone.
Did you did you believe in role models when we were young?
Yes, I did believe in role models.
I had two role models in particular, Muhammad Ali, the boxer was I was crazy about Muhammad Ali.
He was one of my idols.
And the other one was Michael Jackson. Wow.
Two black guys were my role models.
Michael Jackson, who for me still is.
And I was very lucky that much later on in my life, I went to meet Michael Jackson.
Really? In Neverland.
I spent the weekend there in his 45th birthday.
Oh, my God. Yes.
How was it?
It was incredible. It was incredible.
This Michael Jackson is.
What's your favorite song for Michael Jackson?
One of them is Beat It.
OK, but there's another one.
Is it rocking it?
I don't know.
I love Thriller because of the dance.
Thriller was amazing.
Let me let me tell you the my favorite song for Michael Jackson.
What it is, it's it's Beat It is good, too.
Yeah. Oh, rock with you.
Oh, yeah. This is amazing.
I love this.
We're in the podcast track and we're grooving on some Michael Jackson.
Yeah, this is amazing.
But I got to tell you the truth.
My favorite music is rap.
Really? Oh, my God.
Who do you listen to?
Who do I listen to?
Who don't I listen to?
I'm you know, my favorite music is is rap.
And, you know, also things like, for example.
Nice. Wow.
I love the spirit in music.
Yeah, I it's it goes back to that spirit that I was telling you about.
It's even though I'm 65 years old, sometimes
my mind thinks I'm 18.
Yeah, definitely.
I love this.
My taste in music is as if I was 18.
I love this.
Let's get back to Hamid Ali.
Why did you like him?
Muhammad Ali was an amazing person.
he put on a show or not see that you need to read his big biography okay and
there you see the real person he was a real person but in public he was a showman
but in reality he was a very modest and he showed his his weaknesses and he
showed he was human yeah but I just love the fact that he also loved
life and he was a showman in public I love this and I love how you're
seen through the the names and and the job titles and all the flashlights big
lesson I learned in life the hard way is another one that my father gave me which
is never judge a person until you understand where they're coming from
that's true every one of us you know you meet somebody who's in a bad mode
and they're they're rude to you you don't know what's happening inside
that person's head you don't know what kind of a day they've had you don't know
what kind of a life they have so it's very important to understand where
people are coming from before you judge them I think that if we're
speaking of entrepreneurship if we're speaking from the band if we're
speaking from the yard which is becoming an amazing land of
opportunities and we're gathered here today I think if I learned a lesson
from you today is that in order to be a successful entrepreneur or businessman
businesswoman I need to be rooted to my human self side in more yeah you
need to be rooted in human side but the most important thing is what does
an entrepreneur see in uncertainty opportunity yes and so you need to
feel comfortable outside of your comfort zone you need to be ambitious
all those things entrepreneurs see opportunity and uncertainty and most
people see fear and everybody should be comfortable with uncertainty because
we're living a very uncertain work yeah that's why I love the Lebanese so
much because they see opportunity and uncertainty all the time because they're
living with so much uncertainty in their lives and the Egyptians to an
extent I mean if you go around the Middle East the DCC you find a lot
of Egyptian executives that have left Egypt and are big you know executives
and big companies so I I think that one of my biggest advice is for young
entrepreneurs is that they should embrace uncertainty they should get out
of their comfort zone and feel comfortable you know yeah you need to
feel the pain and you know life is like a muscle the more you stretch it
yeah the more you're comfortable what's your plan what what are your plans in
Saudi Arabia come what are your coming plans here I intend to keep coming here
hopefully for the next 10 or 15 or 20 years I love this country it's a land
of opportunity I love the culture I love the people my plans are just to
work on great projects with people I enjoy working with that's super nice
and I'm I'm happy I'm here because I got this chance to actually take a lot of
your time my pleasure and thank you so much this is the highlight of my
interviews and the highlight of my presence here in the band with the
podcast drug by media turtles this is the first time I've done a podcast
in a truck so this is the first for me too did you like it I love it so
it's crazy outside and we're here so chill we can do yoga here if we want
thank you so much thank you Paris I really enjoyed it I hope you keep on
inspiring as many people as you come across please be my mentor please I'll
stay in touch how can I be your mentor you're Oprah Winfrey already no
I'm not I'm just I am just I was glad to be interviewing you today
thank you so much thank you
